So we are using async await everywhere now
and there's one important thing I want to highlight here. For all these mongoose operations which is
the primary thing where we use async await, you have to understand that mongoose actually with operations
like count documents or find does not return a real promise but a promise-like object where you can
use then and catch and also async await, that is supported by mongoose even though behind the scenes
it's not a real promise.
Doesn't matter too much for you to be honest because you use async and await in exactly the same
way you would use it on a real promise
but I also don't want to hide that fact from you.
You could use a real promise by chaining exec
after all these mongoose operations, so after find, after count documents.
If you do that, then you get back a real promise,
we don't really need that here because, well that promise-like object behaves in exactly the way we want. You
do have a real promise with the bcrypt library though, when we hash our password, here we get a
real promise
and as you can see, well you see nothing, you see no difference in the way we use await
and you also had no difference
you previously used then and catch.
So that is what I mean, you don't need to care too much about that,
I still did want to mention it.
More importantly, I want you to take away that async await is a nice alternative to using then
and catch. It's not better, it's not faster,
behind the scenes it's basically the same code.
It can be more readable to you but you must never forget that these still are asynchronous steps,
the javascript code execution behavior doesn't change because of that.
It does not block execution,
it simply wraps all the code after an await statement in the then block
you would have to write otherwise,
so this runs inside of the implicit then block
this statement creates,
this is how you have to think about that.
So never forget that these are asynchronous operations because that is really important to understand.
And you can absolutely go with the then and catch block we used before,
so with the old promise style if you prefer that, I like it for teaching because it's clearer that we have
some operation to wait for and that the line after that would execute first, here this is less clear
but if you are aware of how async code works, this can simply be a nicer syntax to look at and it's up
to you which syntax you'll use. For the rest of the course,
I'll write new promises or I'll stick to that
async and await syntax for my node application, for the react application
I'll leave the code as it is with then and catch.
You could use async and await there too
but again this is no react course so I will leave it there as it is, for node we'll go with async await.